What the denotative meaning of Race leaves out and the connotative meaning imparts.

Theory: In 2019 Race is at the forefront of politics.  Locally Washington state has affirmative action on the ballot during the general election with referendum 1000 and 88.  Washington state was one of the first states to ban affirmative action in the '80s with a 58% majority that lots later claimed to be misleading.  Nationally candidates are vying for the Black, Latin X, Asian vote...as we experience an awakening in young voters to oppression and racial justice their candidates are expected to be "woke" even as they attempt to be moderate enough to swing independents.  Race is the subject of our most prize-winning literature and our most debated horror films. However, as race becomes a popular diatribe amongst white's the question of race and ethnicity is still complex within the community and those complexities affect the change we see and the changes we don't.

Example: I facilitate an affinity group for parents of African ancestry at Bertschi school in north capitol hill.  When members of the DEIC ( Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Committee ) decided to began the affinity groups last year it was a conscious decision to make them race-focused.  This in itself speaks to the culture/ethnicity of the Pacific Northwest.  There were ample members of the committee who belong to the LGBTQ+ Community however we felt represented and seen in the Bertschi community in that way but felt in need of community around our racial identities. In planning for our first meeting I realized that naming our affinity group was complicated.  African American is the official term for people in this country of African Ancestry, however, the African Diaspora is complicated even in a city as homogenous as Seattle. When you zoom in further to our small private school in north capitol hill there still is enough variance to pause in the naming.  Therefore I decided our first meeting would be to discuss just that; How do we identify? Also, how would the people welcomed into this affinity space identify?  We had a small group; 7 in total and to name our group took the entire 2 hrs.  We settled on AAB; African, African American and Black with the understanding that if we were in a different city, perhaps just a different school that name would be insufficient.  What about Haiti? Barbados? The Dominican Republic? To name a few other places heavily populated with people of African Ancestry.  

Assessment of Theory: To share a race is not the same as sharing an experience or ethnicity.Although African American is the standard denotation for people of African Ancestry in this color I identify as Black.  Partially due to my upbringing, Black was the identifier during my formative years, I became used to it and enjoy some of the wordplay associated: Black is beautiful, Black girl magic, Black don't crack...and so on. What I found was that the majority of members within the group identified as Black in informal settings and African Americans in formal settings.   However, we noted that older people of African Ancestry tended to prefer the term African American. I believe this is a problematic denotation because of the qualifier African, before American.  The only people in this country who don't have such a qualifier are white.  They are not Irish American, Scottish American, Polish American, Italian American....etc. Because that would be an impossible standard.  European Americans usually have ancestry from more than one region or country...as do African Americans. Clearly that ancestry is often fraught with pain and not something African Americans wish to claim, however, it is true.  We are all Americans and in this country, in this time I am also Black.  In many ways, within our small community, the perception of others that we have a shared race and ethnicity prompted the need for a space. The scrutiny of people with dark skin and the assumptions of socioeconomic status, intelligence, and value. The connotation associated with African features is that we have a shared race and ethnicity although that is seldom the case. Within our 7 members two were from the Continent; One Ethiopian and one Nigerian, which are vastly different cultures.  2 were mixed race and those are just a few significant differences in our ethnicities.  Finding common ground was the hardest aspect of facilitating this group with entirely different ways of identifying, ethnicities, cultures, and beliefs. As conversations explore racism, oppression and social justice in this country we found our commonalities. People of African Ancestry experience the same bias, oppression and institutionalized racism and those experiences create our shared culture, not our race.

 
